hi guys what's up and welcome back to my
channel okay so last week I made a video
about why calorie calculators suck for
petite women if you haven't watched it
yet go back and watch it
it explains kind of the context of what
this video is gonna be back about so
after I made that video even though I
only got a couple hundred views I got
crazy number of DMS from you guys asking
okay so online calorie calculator is
sucked for petites but what is a better
alternative what should I do instead so
I decided that even though it gives some
like little sprinkle of tips in the last
video I would make an entire video about
a better alternative than online calorie
calculators for petites what you should
do to see results and this is by the way
the exact method I teach in all of my
programs like I'm giving it to you of
course the program has so much more
support and it has me as a coach so
there's that but this is literally the
methodology I'm giving it to you guys
today and this is going to help you get
major results it has literally changed
lives of my clients and yeah we won't go
into that but I let's just jump into it
let's do it so I'm pulling up some notes
because I want to make sure that I speak
as concisely as I can and give you guys
the best tips PS I was just watching a
playback of the intro and I realized
that this looks like a cross which
wouldn't be a bad thing I'm not super
religious I'm not religious really at
all but this is actually a dagger it's
like a sword back from when I was a
competitive fencer so um you guys you're
trying to figure out okay how do I
calculate accurately the number of
calories that I should be eating on a
daily basis as a petite woman so the
standard way of going about this whole
thing like if you were to go into
YouTube right now don't do it yet we
watch this video and then you can see
and you ask other people other fitness
professionals under nutrition
professionals how to calculate tdee they
would give you that equation most likely
I mean when I watch these other videos
they just tell you use the equation and
then subtract one percent of those
calories and now you're cutting all the
sudden
so that standard doesn't work for us as
we saw what we're gonna do instead is
going to make it so that you don't have
to diet to lose fat and that's kind of
the goal here is to eat all the foods
feel great start to tone up search
and just feel good feel confident it
feels strong like these are the goals
right so we need a different approach
we've been over that and the approach is
going to be much safer healthier funner
more enjoyable process than dieting and
healthier bottom line healthier and then
another thing that came up in the last
videos a lot of people started talking
about why counting calories are not kind
of calories as good or bad the last
video actually wasn't about counting
calories it was about calculating
calories and accuracy so I haven't
actually talked with you guys yet about
whether or not I believe in counting
calories and another way of saying cung
counting calories is counting macros and
this won't be a video on macros I could
do a separate one on macros but in
general you do not need to track your
calories or count your calories to lose
fat yeah it might be good for some
people such as athletes looking to
really optimize their performance it can
be certain situations but for the most
part counting calories does more harm
than good most fitness professionals do
in some form track loosely like just to
check in on themselves every few months
that's just what people do once you know
what you should be eating kind of like a
checkup how am i doing with my nutrition
and for that reason it's basically a
really good tool for just awareness but
you don't need to track every day to see
results so step one is to download my
fitness pal this is what I use to take a
look at what I'm eating in the day and
keep track of what my actual total daily
energy expenditure is so instead of
using a calculator here's how you're
going to determine your tdee the total
number of calories that you're going to
be eating in a day with activity
factored in new rtd includes the
physical activity it also includes the
thermic effect of food which is the
calories burned when you're digesting
food and then it also includes your non
activity calorie expenditure so that's
not exercise but fidgeting walking
around that type of thing so tdee covers
it all and we're gonna find the most
accurate way to do that so first up
download My Fitness Pal step two you're
just going to journal it's a food
journal don't even think about it as
count
calories think about it as a food
journal you're going to journal your
food for three days what's important
about this do not change anything about
what you're eating this is not a time to
judge yourself leave the judgments for
later or never this is not a time to
diet this is not a time to change
everything about what you normally in
your diet you're simply going to pick
three consecutive days to simply write
down in my Fitness Pal what you're
eating without changing anything just
try to be you doing you don't panelize
it yet I know that the the inclination
or like the the thing that we want to do
is immediately analyze ourselves like
say we eat a bag of Doritos and then we
go along it we're like oh I shouldn't be
in that and now I don't want to log it
no none of that don't mess with this
just track I promise this is gonna help
you it it's gonna be hurting you to
track and accurately or to to change
what you're eating because we want to
get the absolute most accurate
screenshot of where your metabolism is
today not in some fantasy not yesterday
not in the future we just want to know
today what is your metabolism like right
now when you go to log here some tips
basically my Fitness Pal is like the
Wikipedia of food entry make sure that
you don't when you search for foods you
don't just choose random ones make sure
they live verification mark or this is
what I recommend and prefer click the
barcode option in the top right corner
and scan food that you're eating so that
you have a more accurate measurement of
the foods not measurement portions but
the actual nutritional information is
correct for example certain brands have
different amounts of protein or
carbohydrate or fat so you want that to
be accurate as most really as possible
as you can't as accurate as possible so
try to use the barcode when you can you
can use the serving sizes they'll have a
drop-down if you have a food scale you
can weight in grams if you don't don't
worry not necessary you can simply
record number of cups or however their
portion sizes they give you and just be
as accurate as you can okay fast-forward
to the future it's been three days and
you've tracked you have your three days
in MyFitnessPal what you're going to do
is you're gonna see the total number of
calories you ate each day and you're
going to add them together
and divide by three to get the average
number of calories that you eat in a day
this is the tdee that we want this is
the TD that represents your metabolism
it's not an equation online that has no
idea who you are or how you eat or all
of that stuff it's just not accurate so
now you have this number this number
represents where your metabolism is now
if you have not significantly if you
have not been gaining significant
amounts of weight or losing significant
amounts of weight say your weight has
been constant then you can safely assume
that this number of calories that you're
eating represents your current
metabolism
okay this represents where you currently
are with your calorie intake at your
maintenance level so if you're eating
say you do this exercise and you find
out you're eating 1400 calories a day
1,500 calories a day it's gonna be on
the lower side most likely given that we
have slower metabolisms as petites so
step four this is what I recommend to
all of my clients if you're just
starting out and you're not sure what to
do stop here and only eat at your
maintenance calories don't try to
decrease it don't try to diet that's the
number one thing I don't want you guys
to do is diminish your metabolism even
more do not diet eat at your maintenance
level what that means is whatever the
average was the last three days is
probably your man's level try to stay in
that range
if you were eating intuitively before
continue to eat intuitively and this is
the number of calories it takes to
maintain your current body weight if you
do not exercise you will not lose more
weight and you won't gain more weight if
you're eating the same amount so what
you're going to do differently now is
you're actually gonna start exercising
in the form of strength training three
to four days a week if you're new to
this I have a free one week workout
program that you can repeat for
literally months and skip great results
has HD videos in it in link is in the
description below
you have no excuse you've got a strength
training plan and I'm laying out the
strategy for you so you're going to
start lifting weights as Apetit this is
the most important part because we're
keeping your calories the same at
maintenance level right we're not
dieting instead we're going to add in
strength training so let's take a look
at a strategy behind this because what's
gonna happen you'll see if you're eating
at your maenads calories but you add an
additional strength training activity
that you were not previously doing
before or if you were previously
strength training you should increase
the intensity increase the weights bring
it up a little bit what you're going to
see is that you're now going to start to
burn fat without having to lower your
calories and slow your metabolism the
strategy behind this is as follows your
basal metabolic rate this is your
resting metabolism it's already low we
know that right
we know that it makes up 70% of your
total daily energy expenditure leaving
just a mere 30% for exercise and other
stuff okay so if you are trying to
create a strategy for yourself wouldn't
you want to target this 70% that huge
number that huge percentage is
controlling whether or not you're losing
fat or not and the good part about it is
your BMR is your it's your resting
metabolism so it's not even how many
colors you're burning during exercise
it's how many calories you're burning
doing absolutely nothing sitting at your
desk sleeping walking around so if we
can change your BMR and get it increased
get it up you are going to start to see
fat burning results all the time you
won't just be burning fat in the gym
you'll be burning fat because your
metabolism is revved up and you're
burning it just as you walk around the
way that you're doing this that you're
increasing your BMR is by increasing
your muscle mass muscle mass it takes
more calories in your body to maintain
it your body literally spends more
calories maintaining muscle then it does
fat so when you increase your muscle
mass you actually increase your rusting
metabolism given that it's 70% of your
tdee that's hugely significant and a
really good strategy and that's why it
works for a petite women because you're
not dieting you're not setting yourself
up for failure
you're literally keeping things as they
are
and adding
and the right type of strength training
with progressive overload having a
certain intensity in that workout and
not you know adding in crazy amounts of
cardio you're not making your appetite
hormones go crazy and out the window
you're not dieting and then failing at
the diet because it was totally too hard
in it plays with your hormones and you
can't resist the food because you're
starving
you're literally keeping it the same
adding your strength training regimen
and now you're training smart as a
petite because you aren't manipulating
the equation in your favor without
having to struggle like really hard when
you first start strength training you're
going to just by the way of adding in
the strength training be in a chloride
Efes it now so you can see how we are
creating a clerk deficit through the
strength training rather than through
the diet because we don't have enough
calories to do a diet in a healthy way
we need to get the nutrition in we need
the protein really really really
prioritize a starting a protein each
meal we need that protein present to
build muscle in the gym so you can see
now that it's really really important to
strength train it's what is going to
help get your metabolism up it's what's
gonna allow you to not have to die in as
Apetit and it's gonna help you get that
toned look you're gonna feel great and
honestly it's fun it's just a so much
more enjoyable process then dieting and
feeling miserable about ourselves and
having the low confidence so what
happens once you've been in this pattern
for a few months you'll see great
progress and then you'll probably want
to increase your calories as your
metabolism can then speed up even more
now that you have more muscle mass
you're burning more calories your TV has
increased you can increase your calories
okay so you can see now how I have been
able to increase my calories at times up
to 2,000 calories right now I'm not
there but I have been able to get it
that high just through increasing muscle
mass increasing my calories this is how
it's done in a healthy way this will
give you a really toned but feminine
look no we were never gonna bulk up and
become the Hulk that's pretty much
impossible for women unless they're
really serious bodybuilders and a lot of
them might be on hormones as well so you
guys if this video has been helpful for
you please share it with another petite
friend this can still have a lot of the
frustration and pain that we go through
just click the share button at the
bottom share it on your Facebook at the
very least please give it a like this is
literally worth a lot of money this is
all of my training this is what I work
on with my clients it's very very
effective and I want to help you guys
which is why I'm giving it to you so
give it a like subscribe for more let me
know like would you try this is this
already what you're doing have you had
success with this if you've tried it
what do you think about this process
does it sound fun to what questions you
have about it let's chat in the comments
about what you think about it and if
there is any more questions I'll do a
part 3 if this is a good enough series
at 2 episodes and we'll keep it there
and other than that you guys have a
great day and go own your power and I'll
see you next time bye